---
title: 2024 Retrospective & Improving for 2025
date: 2025.01.12
readable: true
---


As we enter 2025, I find it valuable to look back on 2024, and study the progress and related challenges to, in a way, structure my free time forward to ensure it is well spent. While the idea to structure my free time in such a way may sound psychopathic, it's function is simply to make sure I spend my free time in a manner I find enjoyable and am proud of, rather than quickly falling into the spiral of laying on the sofa, watching videos or short-form content. The latter, in particular, is something I have never been able to reflect on with a sense of fulfilment or enjoyment, and is therefore something I hope to avoid despite it's immediate gratification and momentary excitement. Instead, I want to create a space for activities that foster personal growth and lasting enjoyment, ensuring that my free time truly enriches my life rather than providing fleeting distractions.


#### Reflecting on 2024

In 2024, one of the most rewarding aspects has been the workout programme I adopted three months into the new year, "coincidentally" the same time me and my previous partner broke up. I quickly built an exercise programme, aiming to improve most aspects of my physical self, which later I have seen lead to improvements in strength, endurance, mobility, climbing-technique, and muscle aesthetics. Additionally, my supplement plan supported this quite well, as I quickly landed on using Whey protein, versatile Creatine, and Casein protein. Although my weight increased and I shed some fat, there is still significant room for further growth and improvements.  

Despite the success with my exercise programme, there were several areas where I found myself falling short. One of the main challenges was maintaining a consistent and effective diet. I found it difficult to follow the planned nutrition strategy properly, which likely hindered my weight gain and limited the results I could have achieved, largely due to poor planning and meal-prepping. Additionally, I also experienced periods of inconsistency in my workout routine. While I maintained the core aspects of the programme (Gym sessions, climbing and cardio) I fell short on my core- and finger-focused sessions and mobility session. This was a consistent inconsistency from October through December. In the later pars of the latter month I also experienced significant shortcomings of even the core aspects of the programme. Lastly, I did not dedicate enough consistent focus to areas like coding and machine learning, despite spending much of the summer and autumn learning and taking courses in the fields. On top of this, I struggled maintaining focus in calligraphy, often neglecting it in favour of less rewarding activities.

Reflecting on 2024, there are several areas I will be improving moving forward to ensure my progress does not plateau. As mentioned above, one key issue was the lack of a well-planned diet and consistent meal prep. During a period when I utilised burritos as an evening meal post-exercise in addition to a protein shake, it worked well in terms of convenience and nutrition, but I failed to maintain it consistently. I will be reintroducing this approach, with better planning, with better planning and preparation, to ensure I stay on track with my goals. Additionally, I will be implementing a semi-proper and quick breakfast in the mornings, as I have previously neglected this and have instead used large lunches to compensate for this, as well as bringing a protein shake to drink between lunch and dinner despite the benefits of taking one right before my workouts (As I usually exercise at around 19.00 or 20.00). Furthermore, I also want to explore the possibility of training each muscle group twice a week, which could enhance overall muscle growth and strength. The past 2 months I have experimented with exercising shoulders twice a week, and have found great results. Though, the difficult part of this is to find the time to do so, as I have some restraint in terms of, for instance, not having sore muscles in my back or legs on the day I will be climbing, to not have so sore muscle I cannot do my cardio properly, and try to still maintain one full recovery day a week. Hence the need for proper planning to ensure every requirement is still met. Additionally, I plan to adjust my mobility routine to better incorporate balance exercises, recognising that balance is as vital as any other muscle group, especially for activities such as climbing. I previously also noted my inconsistent focus on areas such as machine learning, coding and calligraphy, which will be needing more consistent focus moving forward. Finally, I want to make better use of the time between work and exercise to explore new hobbies, as I often found myself in periods of inconsistent free time that could have been better spent discovering and nurturing other interests.


#### Specifics for 2025

First, in 2025, I plan to adopt a more structured approach to tracking my progress by consistently taking notes on my "performance" each week, as well as doing a retrospective on how each week as gone. This was something I began doing in 2024, where I spent a couple of months noting how each week went relative to my set goals for that given week, but I want to make it a regular habit moving forward. By reflecting on how each week went, I can more easily assess what is working and identify areas of improvements. Additionally, I will continue to taking detailed notes on every exercise I perform during my workouts. This allows me to monitor progress in real time, adjust my routines accordingly, and ensure I am consistently challenging myself to improve. For more on the latter part, see [Current Exercise-plan](https://haavard.netlify.app/content/blog/other_thoughts_and_notes/Exerciseplan).

For 2025, I have set a series of clear goals to ensure I stay on track with both personal and professional development. One of the key goals is to dedicate more time to voluntary work, allowing me to contribute to causes and projects I care about. In the start will this mostly include assisting in local animal shelters. I also aim to cook a new recipe every week, expanding my culinary skills and ensuring I continue to explore new flavours and techniques, and avoiding falling into traps of eating the same meals every day, every week. Another goal is to commit more time per week to exploring or documenting my personal projects, whether it is analyses, coding exercises, machine learning projects or other hobby-related projects, such as [BCP](https://haavard.netlify.app/content/blog/projects/bcp_i_idea), [ACS](https://haavard.netlify.app/content/blog/projects/ACS_i_idea), or [MLBT](https://haavard.netlify.app/content/blog/projects/MLBT_i_idea). In addition, I plan to invest more time into both new and existing hobbies. This includes making regular progress in photography, reading, calligraphy, and woodcarving, while also dedicating time to exploring Jiu Jitsu and sailing. The specific structure of how I the goals set for each area may be seen below. This approach will provide a balanced approach to self-improvement, ensuring that my time is spent meaningfully across various aspects of my life.

##### Goals related to hobbies and interest is as follows:
Photography:
- Minimum one session a week focused on improving my photography skills. The length and content of a session may vary from one session to the other. I will, at a later date, create a plan on how I will go forward in bettering my photography. ([The Plan in Question](https://haavard.netlify.app/content/blog/other_thoughts_and_notes/photographyplan) to work on the fundamentals)
Reading:
- Reading minimum five hours a week. Considering I spend an estimated six hours a week on commuting to work, this should not prove itself a challenge. The books I will read will mostly be from my [To-be-read-list](https://haavard.netlify.app/content/blog/other_thoughts_and_notes/readlist)
Calligraphy:
- Minimum one session a week focused on improving my calligraphy skills. The length and content of a session may vary from one session to the other. I will, at a later date, create a plan on how I will go forward in bettering my calligraphy.
Woodcarving:
- Minimum one session a week focused on improving my woodcarving skills. The length and content of a session may vary from one session to the other. I will, at a later date, create a plan on how I will go forward in bettering my woodcarving.
Rockclimbing:
- I will maintain my current routine of 1 bouldering session a week, as well as supplementing by continuing the routine for finger and core strength, mobility, and balance. However, given two of my fingers have experienced pulley injuries (Middle and ring finger, A2 and/or A3 on both), I will wait until my injuries are fully healed.
- I will also spend more time focusing on betting my technique, as I feel I have the strength to climb 7A but technique to 6B.
Jiu Jitsu:
- I will explore its availability and potentially switch out my core routine with Jiu Jitsu training (Twice a week).
Sailing:
- I will start by taking course on it, and thereafter explore its availability to practice it more frequently.

